{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red118\green15\blue80;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12280\viewh9940\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 SkimNotes Framework
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The SkimNotes framework defines an interface to easily work with Skim notes. You can read and write Skim notes in various formats to and from extended attributes, read and write them from and to a .skim file, or read them from a PDF bundle.  Below is a short description of the various classes and categories defined in this framework.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
NSFileManager (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \
\
A category on NSFileManager.  This category adds methods to read and write Skim notes.  Skim notes can be set in the extended attributes of a (PDF) file, contains in a .skim file, or contained inside a PDF bundle.  There are three types of Skim notes data: archived property lists, text notes, or RTF notes.  This class will probably be your main interface with the framework.\
\

\b PDFDocument (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \
\
A category on PDFDocument.  This category defines methods to add Skim notes to a PDFDocument.  Skim notes added to a PDFDocument are represented by concrete PDFAnnotation subclasses.  You can either add Skim notes from an array of properties, or by initializing a new document from a URL for a PDF bundle or a PDF file containing Skim notes in its extended attributes.  This class may be your main interface with the framework.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 SKNExtendedAttributeManager
\b0 \
\
A class with a shared object to read and write data from and to extended attributes.  This class is basically an Objective-C wrapper around the low-level BSD functions for accessing extended attributes.  This class also contains logic to split the data into segments, to avoid the effective 2kB size limit of extended attributes on Mac OSX.  You probably don't need to deal directly with this class, you probably use it indirectly through the API provided by the NSFileManager and PDFDocument categories.\
\

\b PDFAnnotation (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationCircle (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationSquare (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationFreeText (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationText (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationLine (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \

\b PDFAnnotationMarkup (SKNExtensions)
\b0 \
\
Categories on PDFAnnotation (sub)classes.  These categories define the logic to translate between a dictionary of properties and a PDFAnnotation.  It defines a new property to find out if an annotation is created as a Skim note.  It also defines a new designated initializer for initialing new Skim note annotations, as well as a custom initializer to create an annotation from a Skim note.  You don't need to deal directly with the methods defined in this category, and only indirectly use it from the PDFDocument category.  You may add overrides of the designated initializer to the concrete subclasses to provide default values for their properties. \
\

\b SKNPDFAnnotationNote
\b0 \
\
A concrete subclass of PDFAnnotationText.  This class is used to represent Skim anchored notes.  Objects of this class contain, apart from the properties of PDFAnnotationText, an image and an attributed string value.\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 Skimnotes Command Line Tool
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The skimnotes tool provides a command line utility to read and write Skim notes from and to a file or PDF bundle.  You can either directly access the Skim notes using the command line tool.  Or you can run the tool as an agent, and connect to the agent using Distributed Objects.  Use 
\f1 skimnotes help
\f0  to get more help on using the tool.\
\

\b SKNAgentListenerProtocol
\b0 \
\
This protocol is used by the agent.  You can send messages from this protocol to the proxy of the connection through DO.\
\
\pard\tx480\pardeftab480\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs20 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 @protocol\cf0  SKNAgentListenerProtocol\
- (\cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSData *)SkimNotesAtPath:(\cf2 in\cf0  \cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSString *)aFile;\
- (\cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSData *)RTFNotesAtPath:(\cf2 in\cf0  \cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSString *)aFile;\
- (\cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSData *)textNotesAtPath:(\cf2 in\cf0  \cf2 bycopy\cf0  NSString *)aFile encoding:(NSStringEncoding)encoding;\
\cf2 @end\cf0 \
}