{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 GillSans;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 Times-Italic;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\qc

\f0\fs60 \cf0 BibDesk ReadMe\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 Thanks for using BibDesk. \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f3\i\fs22 \cf0 Especially thanks to those who have sent in feedback and console logs!
\f2\i0 \
\
The BibDesk website is at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bibdesk.sourceforge.net/"}}{\fldrslt http://bibdesk.sourceforge.net/}} - check there for current information and ways to find out more about the program and the development efforts.\
\
Bug reports should be submitted to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=61487&atid=497423"}}{\fldrslt bug tracker}} on SourceForge.  
\f4\b \cf2 Note: 
\f2\b0 \cf0 Please assign the bug report to someone - if you don't personally know any developers, assign the bug to Mike (username mmcc). If you don't assign the bug to someone, nobody will notice it for a long time. Assigning it to someone sends them an email notification.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f4\b \cf0 About BibDesk
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
BibDesk is intended to help keep track of papers you've read, cited, heard about, etc - especially if you intend to cite them in a (La)TeX document.\
Even more important, if you have electronic copies of these papers, BibDesk can keep them organized for you and assign meaningful names to them, as iTunes does for music files.
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f4\b \cf0 Notes and User Issues
\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Macro usage notes:\
\
\ulnone -  All fields are displayed in the preview and editor as expanded values (if the string is defined).\
-  Use cmd-R in the editor to edit the "raw" BibTeX directly; this is what the value will look like when saved to disk.\
-  If you delete the outer braces in the raw editor, they will not appear when saved.  For example, to enter an abbreviated month, select the "Month" field, hit cmd-R (or use the menu item), delete the braces that appear, and enter the abbreviated month.  The expanded value will also be shown.\
-  To edit @string definitions, use the "Window->Macros" menu item (cmd-shift-m); there is a separate macro editor for each document, and you can drag existing @string definitions directly into the macro editor table.
\f4\b \

\f2\b0 \
\ul Taking Care of your Data:\
\ulnone \
We recommend keeping important information in a version control system such as CVS.\
Also remember that if you just open a file, and don't save it as the same name - you 
\f4\b can't 
\f2\b0 kill the original file.\
\
\ul When it may cause you to lose data if you save over a file:\
\
\ulnone - If your database doesn't parse completely and you choose to only use the ones that did, you will lose any information in the ill-formed entries!  If you choose to open the file and save it from BibDesk, save it with an alternate name so you don't overwrite the old file.
\f4\b \

\f2\b0 \
\ul Getting Help\
\ulnone \
If you have a problem with using the program and you'd like to talk with other users about it, there is a mailing list set up for discussing using BibDesk. Information about it is available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/bibdesk-users"}}{\fldrslt http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/bibdesk-users}}.}