.\" Copyright 1998-2002 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH pdftopbm 1 "05 December 2002"
.SH NAME
pdftopbm \- Portable Document Format (PDF) to Portable Bitmap (PBM)
converter (version 2.01)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftopbm
[options]
.I PDF-file PBM-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftopbm
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) files to black-and-white image
files in Portable Bitmap (PBM) format.
.PP
Pdftopbm reads the PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes one PBM file for each page,
.IR PBM-root - nnnnnn .pbm,
where
.I nnnnnn
is the page number.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Pdftopbm reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to
find the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't
exist, it looks for a system-wide config file, typically
/usr/local/etc/xpdfrc (but this location can be changed when pdftopbm
is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of
the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies the first page to convert.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies the last page to convert.
.TP
.BI \-r " number"
Specifies the resolution, in DPI.  The default is 150 DPI.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH BUGS
Pdftopbm uses X to do the rendering, so it is limited by the
capabilities and performance of the X server.  In particular,
high-resolution output requires lots of memory.  Also, non-scalable
fonts will not look great.
.SH EXIT CODES
The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:
.TP
0
No error.
.TP
1
Error opening a PDF file.
.TP
2
Error opening an output file.
.TP
3
Error related to PDF permissions.
.TP
99
Other error.
.SH AUTHOR
The pdftopbm software and documentation are copyright 1996-2002 Glyph
& Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/
