.\" Copyright 2002 Glyph & Cog, LLC
.TH xpdfrc 5 "05 December 2002"
.SH NAME
xpdfrc \- configuration file for Xpdf tools (version 2.01)
.SH DESCRIPTION
All of the Xpdf tools read a single configuration file.  If you have a
.I .xpdfrc
file in your home directory, it will be read.  Otherwise, a
system-wide configuration file will be read from
.IR /usr/local/etc/xpdfrc ,
if it exists.  (This is its default location; depending on build
options, it may be placed elsewhere.)  On Win32 systems, the
.I xpdfrc
file should be placed in the same directory as the executables.
.PP
The xpdfrc file consists of a series of configuration options, one
per line.  Blank lines and lines starting with a \'#' (comments) are
ignored.
.PP
The following sections list all of the configuration options, sorted
into functional groups.  There is an examples section at the end.
.SH INCLUDE FILES
.TP
.BI include " config\-file"
Includes the specified config file.  The effect of this is equivalent
to inserting the contents of
.I config\-file
directly into the parent config file in place of the
.I include
command.  Config files can be nested arbitrarily deep.
.SH CHARACTER MAPPING
.TP
.BI nameToUnicode " map\-file"
Specifies a file with the mapping from character names to Unicode.
This is used to handle PDF fonts that have valid encodings but no
ToUnicode entry.  Each line of a nameToUnicode file looks like this:

.I "    " hex\-string name

The
.I hex\-string
is the Unicode (UCS-2) character index, and
.I name
is the corresponding character name.  Multiple nameToUnicode files can
be used; if a character name is given more than once, the code in the
last specified file is used.  There is a built-in default
nameToUnicode table with all of Adobe's standard character names.
.TP
.BI cidToUnicode " registry\-ordering map\-file"
Specifies the file with the mapping from character collection to
Unicode.  Each line of a cidToUnicode file represents one character:

.I "    " hex\-string

The
.I hex\-string
is the Unicode (UCS-2) index for that character.  The first line maps
CID 0, the second line CID 1, etc.  File size is determined by size of
the character collection.  Only one file is allowed per character
collection; the last specified file is used.  There are no built-in
cidToUnicode mappings.
.TP
.BI unicodeMap " encoding\-name map\-file"
Specifies the file with mapping from Unicode to
.IR encoding\-name .
These encodings are used for X display fonts and text output (see
below).  Each line of a unicodeMap file represents a range of one or
more Unicode characters which maps linearly to a range in the output
encoding:
.nf

.I "    " in\-start\-hex in\-end\-hex out\-start\-hex

.fi
Entries for single characters can be abbreviated to:
.nf

.I "    " in\-hex out\-hex

.fi
The
.I in\-start\-hex
and
.I in\-end\-hex
fields (or the single
.I in\-hex
field) specify the Unicode range.  The
.I out\-start\-hex
field (or the
.I out\-hex
field) specifies the start of the output encoding range.  The length
of the
.I out\-start\-hex
(or
.IR out\-hex )
string determines the length of the output characters (e.g., UTF-8
uses different numbers of bytes to represent characters in different
ranges).  Entries must be given in increasing Unicode order.  Only one
file is allowed per encoding; the last specified file is used.  The
.IR Latin1 ,
.IR ASCII7 ,
.IR Symbol ,
.IR ZapfDingbats ,
.IR UTF-8 ,
and
.I UCS-2
encodings are predefined.
.TP
.BI cMapDir " registry\-ordering dir"
Specifies a search directory,
.IR dir ,
for CMaps for the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection.  There can be multiple directories for a
particular collection.  There are no default CMap directories.
.TP
.BI toUnicodeDir " dir"
Specifies a search directory,
.IR dir ,
for ToUnicode CMaps.  There can be multiple ToUnicode directories.
There are no default ToUnicode directories.
.SH DISPLAY FONTS
.TP
.BI displayFontX " PDF\-font\-name XLFD encoding\-name"
Maps a PDF font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to an X font,
.IR XLFD ,
for display.  The XLFD (X Logical Font Descriptor) should contain the
string "%s", which will be replaced by xpdf with the font size.  If
the XLFD contains spaces it must be quoted.  The
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the
.I unicodeMap
command (see above).  By default, the Base-14 fonts are mapped to
standard X fonts, using the
.IR Latin1 ,
.IR Symbol ,
and
.I ZapfDingbats
encodings.
.TP
.BI displayFontT1 " PDF\-font\-name T1\-file"
Maps a PDF font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to a Type 1 font for display.  The Type 1 font file,
.IR T1\-file ,
should be a standard .pfa or .pfb file.
.TP
.BI displayFontTT " PDF\-font\-name TT\-file"
Maps a PDF font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to a TrueType font for display.  The TrueType font file,
.IR TT\-file ,
should be a standard .ttf file.
.TP
.BI displayNamedCIDFontX " PDF\-font\-name XLFD encoding\-name"
Maps a specific PDF CID (16-bit) font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to the X font,
.IR XLFD ,
for display.  The encoding given by
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the unicodeMap command.  There are no default
display CID font mappings.
.TP
.BI displayCIDFontX " registry\-ordering XLFD encoding\-name"
Maps the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection to the X font,
.IR XLFD ,
for display.  This mapping is used if the font name doesn't match any
of the fonts declared with displayNamedCIDFont* commands.  The
encoding given by
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the unicodeMap command.  There are no default
display CID font mappings.
.TP
.BI displayNamedCIDFontT1 " PDF\-font\-name T1\-file"
Maps a specific PDF CID (16-bit) font,
.IR PDF\-font\-name ,
to a CID font (16-bit PostScript font), for display.  There are no
default CID font mappings.
.TP
.BI displayCIDFontT1 " registry\-ordering T1\-file"
Maps the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection to a CID font (16-bit PostScript font), for
display.  This mapping is used if the font name doesn't match any of
the fonts declared with displayNamedCIDFont* commands.  There are no
default CID font mappings.
.TP
.BI fontDir " dir"
Specifies a search directory for external font files.  There can be
multiple fontDir directories.  If a PDF file uses a font but doesn't
embed it, these directories will be searched for a matching font file.
These fonts are used by both xpdf (for display) and pdftops (for
embedding in the generated PostScript).  Only files with suffixes of
".pfa", ".pfb", or ".ttf" will be used; other files in these
directories will be ignored.  There are no default fontDir
directories.
.SH POSTSCRIPT CONTROL
.TP
.BI psPaperSize " width(pts) height(pts)"
Sets the paper size for PostScript output.  The
.I width
and
.I height
parameters give the paper size in PostScript points.
.TP
.BR psPaperSize " letter | legal | A4 | A3"
Sets the paper size for PostScript output to a standard size.  The
default paper size is set when xpdf and pdftops are built, typically
to "letter" or "A4".
.TP
.BR psDuplex " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the generated PostScript will set the "Duplex"
pagedevice entry.  This tells duplex-capable printers to enable
duplexing.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psLevel " level1 | level1sep | level2 | level2sep | level3 | level3Sep"
Sets the PostScript level to generate.  This defaults to "level2".
.TP
.BI psFont " PDF\-font\-name PS\-font\-name"
When the
.I PDF\-font\-name
font is used in a PDF file, it will be translated to the PostScript
font
.IR PS\-font\-name ,
which is assumed to be resident in the printer.  Typically,
.I PDF\-font\-name
and
.I PS\-font\-name
are the same.  By default, only the Base-14 fonts are assumed to be
resident.
.TP
.BI psNamedFont16 " PDF\-font\-name wMode PS\-font\-name encoding"
When the 16-bit font
.I PDF\-font\-name
is used in a PDF file with the
.I wMode
writing mode and is not embedded, the
.I PS\-font\-name
font is substituted for it.  The writing mode must be either \'H' for
horizontal or \'V' for vertical.  The
.I PS\-font\-name
font is assumed to be resident in the printer and to use the specified
encoding (which must have been defined with the unicodeMap command).
.TP
.BI psFont16 " registry\-ordering wMode PS\-font\-name encoding"
When a 16-bit font using the
.I registry\-ordering
character collection and 
.I wMode
writing mode is not embedded and does not match any of the fonts
declared in psNamedFont16 commands, the
.I PS\-font\-name
font is substituted for it.  The writing mode must be either \'H' for
horizontal or \'V' for vertical.  The
.I PS\-font\-name
font is assumed to be resident in the printer and to use the specified
writing mode and encoding (which must have been defined with the
unicodeMap command).
.TP
.BR psEmbedType1Fonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of Type 1 fonts in generated
PostScript.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psEmbedTrueTypeFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of TrueType fonts in generated
PostScript.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BR psEmbedCIDTrueTypeFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of CID TrueType fonts in generated
PostScript.  For Level 3 PostScript, this generates a CID font, for
lower levels it generates a non-CID composite font.
.TP
.BR psEmbedCIDPostScriptFonts " yes | no"
If set to "no", prevents embedding of CID PostScript fonts in
generated PostScript.  For Level 3 PostScript, this generates a CID
font, for lower levels it generates a non-CID composite font.
.TP
.BR psOPI " yes | no"
If set to "yes", generates PostScript OPI comments for all images and
forms which have OPI information.  This option is only available if
the Xpdf tools were compiled with OPI support.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BR psASCIIHex " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the ASCIIHexEncode filter will be used instead of
ASCII85Encode for binary data.  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI psFile " file\-or\-command"
Sets the default PostScript file or print command for xpdf.  Commands
start with a \'|' character; anything else is a file.  If the file
name or command contains spaces it must be quoted.  This defaults to
unset, which tells xpdf to generate a name of the form <file>.ps for a
PDF file <file>.pdf.
.TP
.BI fontDir " dir"
See the description above, in the DISPLAY FONTS section.
.SH TEXT CONTROL
.TP
.BI textEncoding " encoding\-name"
Sets the encoding to use for text output.  (This can be overridden
with the "-enc" switch on the command line.)  The
.I encoding\-name
must be defined with the unicodeMap command (see above).  This
defaults to "Latin1".
.TP
.BR textEOL " unix | dos | mac"
Sets the end-of-line convention to use for text output.  The options
are:
.nf

    unix = LF
    dos  = CR+LF
    mac  = CR

.fi
(This can be overridden with the "-eol" switch on the command line.)
The default value is based on the OS where xpdf and pdftotext were
built.
.TP
.BR textKeepTinyChars " yes | no"
If set to "yes", text extraction will keep all characters.  If set to
"no", text extraction will discard tiny (smaller than 3 point)
characters after the first 20000 per page, avoiding extremely slow run
times for PDF files that use special fonts to do shading or
cross-hatching.  This defaults to "no".
.SH MISCELLANEOUS SETTINGS
.TP
.BR initialZoom " -5..5 | page | width"
Sets the initial zoom factor.  A number (-5 .. 5) specifies a zoom
factor, where 0 means 72 dpi.  You may also specify \'page', to fit
the page to the window size, or \'width', to fit the page width to the
window width.
.TP
.BR t1libControl " none | plain | low | high"
Sets the type of font rendering for t1lib (the Type 1 rasterizer) to
use.  Options are "none" (don't use t1lib at all), "plain" (use
non-anti-aliased fonts), "low" or "high" (use low-level or high-level
anti-aliased fonts).  This defaults to "low".
.TP
.BR freetypeControl " none | plain | low | high"
Sets the type of font rendering for FreeType (the TrueType rasterizer)
to use.  Options are "none" (don't use FreeType at all), "plain" (use
non-anti-aliased fonts), "low" or "high" (use anti-aliased fonts;
these two are identical).  This defaults to "low".
.TP
.BI urlCommand " command"
Sets the command executed when you click on a URL link.  The string
"%s" will be replaced with the URL.  (See the example below.)  This
has no default value.
.TP
.BI movieCommand " command"
Sets the command executed when you click on a movie annotation.  The
string "%s" will be replaced with the movie file name.  This has no
default value.
.TP
.BI mapNumericCharNames " yes | no"
If set to "yes", the Xpdf tools will attempt to map various numeric
character names sometimes used in font subsets.  In some cases this
leads to usable text, and in other cases it leads to gibberish --
there is no way for Xpdf to tell.  This defaults to "yes".
.TP
.BI printCommands " yes | no"
If set to "yes", drawing commands are printed as they're executed
(useful for debugging).  This defaults to "no".
.TP
.BI errQuiet " yes | no"
If set to "yes", this suppresses all error and warning messages from
all of the Xpdf tools.  This defaults to "no".
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is a sample xpdfrc file.
.nf

# from the Thai support package
nameToUnicode /usr/local/share/xpdf/Thai.nameToUnicode

# from the Japanese support package
cidToUnicode Adobe-Japan1 /usr/local/share/xpdf/Adobe-Japan1.cidToUnicode
unicodeMap   JISX0208     /usr/local/share/xpdf/JISX0208.unicodeMap
cMapDir      Adobe-Japan1 /usr/local/share/xpdf/cmap/Adobe-Japan1

# use an X server font for Times-Roman
# (this is the built-in default)
displayFontX Times-Roman "-*-times-medium-r-normal-*-%s-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1" Latin1

# use the Base-14 Type 1 fonts from ghostscript
# (note that this overrides the displayFontX command above)
displayFontT1 Times-Roman           /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021003l.pfb
displayFontT1 Times-Italic          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021023l.pfb
displayFontT1 Times-Bold            /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021004l.pfb
displayFontT1 Times-BoldItalic      /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n021024l.pfb
displayFontT1 Helvetica             /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019003l.pfb
displayFontT1 Helvetica-Oblique     /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019023l.pfb
displayFontT1 Helvetica-Bold        /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019004l.pfb
displayFontT1 Helvetica-BoldOblique /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n019024l.pfb
displayFontT1 Courier               /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022003l.pfb
displayFontT1 Courier-Oblique       /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022023l.pfb
displayFontT1 Courier-Bold          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022004l.pfb
displayFontT1 Courier-BoldOblique   /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/n022024l.pfb
displayFontT1 Symbol                /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/s050000l.pfb
displayFontT1 ZapfDingbats          /usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts/d050000l.pfb

# from the Japanese support package
displayCIDFontX Adobe-Japan1 "-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-%s-*-*-*-*-*-jisx0208.1983-0" JISX0208

# use the Bakoma Type 1 fonts
# (this assumes they happen to be installed in /usr/local/fonts/bakoma)
fontDir /usr/local/fonts/bakoma

# set some PostScript options
psPaperSize          letter
psDuplex             no
psLevel              level2
psEmbedType1Fonts    yes
psEmbedTrueTypeFonts yes
psFile               "| lpr -Pprinter5"

# assume that the PostScript printer has the Univers and
# Univers-Bold fonts
psFont Univers      Univers
psFont Univers-Bold Univers-Bold

# set the text output options
textEncoding UTF-8
textEOL      unix

# misc options
t1libControl    low
freetypeControl low
urlCommand      "netscape -remove 'openURL(%s)'"

.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/etc/xpdfrc
This is the default location for the system-wide configuration file.
Depending on build options, it may be placed elsewhere.
.TP
.B $HOME/.xpdfrc
This is the user's configuration file.  If it exists, it will be read
in place of the system-wide file.
.SH AUTHOR
The Xpdf software and documentation are copyright 1996-2002 Glyph &
Cog, LLC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdftopbm (1),
.BR pdfimages (1)
.br
.B http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/
