.\" $Id: latex2rtf.1,v 1.7 2002/11/28 17:29:34 prahl Exp $
.\"
.TH latex2rtf 1
.SH NAME
latex2rtf \- Convert a LaTeX file to an RTF file
.SH SYNTAX
latex2rtf [-hlpFSV] [ -d# ] [ -M# 
] [ -a
.I auxfile
] [ -b
.I bblfile
] [ -C
.I codepage
] [ -D
.I dots_per_inch
] [ -i
.I language
] [ -o
.I outputfile
] [ -P
.I /path/to/cfg
] [
.I inputfile
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I latex2rtf
command converts a LaTeX file into RTF text format. The text and much of the formatting
information is translated to RTF.
.TP
.B \-a auxfile
Used to specify a particular cross-referencing file.
When this option is omitted, the 
.I auxfile 
is assumed to be the same as 
.I inputfile
with the .tex suffix replaced by .aux.
.TP
.B \-b bblfile
Used to specify a particular bibliography file 
When this option is omitted, the
.I bblfile 
is assumed to be the same as 
.I inputfile
with the .tex suffix replaced by .bbl.
.TP 
.B \-C codepage
used to specify the character set (code page) used in the LaTeX
document for non-ansi characters. 
.I codepage
may be one of the following:
ansinew, applemac, cp437, cp437de, cp850, cp852, cp855, cp865, cp866, decmulti,
cp1250, cp1252, koi8-r, koi8-u, latin1, latin2, latin3, latin4, latin5, latin9,
maccyr, macukr, next, raw, raw437, raw852, raw1250, raw1251, and raw1253.  
The default behavior is to use ansinew (same as cp1252).  For convenience, just 
the numbers 437, 437de, 850, 852, 855, 866, 1250 or 1252 may be specified.

The raw character set encoding prevents any 8-bit character translation.  The
RTF file is marked to use the same encoding as the default encoding for the
program interpreting the RTF file.  This is particularly useful when translating
a file written in a language (e.g., czech) that maps poorly into the ansinew 
(western european) character set.  

.TP 
.B \-d#
Write extra debugging output to stderr.  Higher numbers cause more debugging output
and range from 0 (only errors) to 6 (absurdly many messages). The default is
1 (Warnings and Errors only).
.TP
.B \-D dots_per_inch
Used to specify the number of dots per inch in equations that are converted to
bitmaps and for graphics that must be converted.  Default is 300 dpi. 
.TP
.B \-F
use LaTeX to create bitmaps for all figures.  This may help when figures are
not translated properly.
.TP 
.B \-h
Print a short usage note
.TP 
.B \-i language
used to set the idiom or language used in the LaTeX document
.I language
may be one of the following
afrikaans, bahasa, basque, brazil, breton, catalan, croatian, czech,
danish, dutch, english, esperanto, estonian, finnish, french, galician,
german, icelandic, irish,italian, latin, lsorbian, magyar, norsk,
nynorsk, polish, portuges, romanian, russian, samin, scottish, serbian,
slovak, slovene, spanish, swedish, turkish, usorbian, welsh.  The default
is english.
.TP 
.B \-l
Assume LaTeX source uses ISO 8859-1 (Latin-1) special characters (default behavior). 
.TP 
.B \-o outputfile
Redirect output to
.I outputfile
Unless an 
.I outputfile
is specified with the -o option, the resulting RTF is produced in a file with .tex
replaced by .rtf.
.TP
.B \-M#
where # selects the type of equation conversion.  -M3 is the default and
converts both inline and displayed equations to RTF.  -M6 converts inline 
equations to RTF and displayed equations to bitmaps. -M12 converts inline 
and displayed equations to bitmaps.  Bitmap conversion requires a working 
latex2png script.  Producing bitmaps is slow.
.TP
.B \-p
do not quote printed parentheses in mathematical formulas, as some versions of
Word (e.g Word 2000) have deep psychological problems with EQ fields using quoted parentheses.
If Word displays some formulas with parentheses as 'Error!', try this option.
See also the -S option.
.TP 
.B \-P /path/to/cfg
used to specify the directory that contains the @code{.cfg} files
.TP 
.B \-S
Use semicolons to separate arguments in RTF fields.
This is needed when the machine opening the RTF file
has a version of Word that uses commas for decimal points.
This also can fix displaying some formulas as 'Error!'
You may also need to try the -p option.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints version on standard output and exits.
.TP 
.B \-W 
Emit warnings directly in RTF file.  Handy for catching things that do not 
get translated correctly.
.TP 
.B \-Z# 
Add # close braces to end of RTF file.  (Handy when file is not converted
correctly and will not open in another word processor.)
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
The configuration files are searched first in any directory specified
by -P, then in the location specified by the environment variable 
RTFPATH, and finally in the location CFGDIR specified when 
.I
latex2rtf
was compiled.  If the configuration files are not found then
.I
latex2rtf 
aborts.  The configuration files allow additional fonts to be 
recognized, additional simple commands to be translation, and 
additional commands to be ignored.
.SH CAUTION
The input file must be a valid LaTeX file. Use LaTeX
to find and fix errors before converting with
.I latex2rtf.
.PP
The configuration files 
.B direct.cfg
and
.B fonts.cfg
are in the correct directory.
You may have to change
.B fonts.cfg
or
.B direct.cfg
to suit your needs.
.SH BUGS
Some might consider RTF to be a bug.
.PP
Some environments are currently ignored. 
.PP
Translation without a LaTeX generated .aux file is poor.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to to the bug tracking system at http://sourceforge.net/projects/latex2rtf/. 
Only report bugs for the latest version of
.I latex2rtf
that is available.  Please identify your operating system.

.PP
If the program produces wrong output or does not work for you, INCLUDE
A SHORT LATEX FILE that demonstrates the problem.  The shorter the 
LaTeX file, the quicker your bug will get addressed.  Bug reports with
non-existent LaTeX files are not welcomed by the developers.
Do not bother to send RTF files, since these are usually unhelpful.
.SH SEE ALSO
latex(1), rtf2LaTeX2e(1), LaTeX User's Guide & Reference Manual by Leslie Lamport
.PP
For complete, current documentation, refer to the Info file
.B latex2rtf.info,
the PDF file
.B latex2rtf.pdf
or the HTML file
.B latex2rtf.html
which are made from the TeXInfo source file
.BR latex2rtf.texi.

